What you feel about these issues? Has a youngster. Are we so disconnected or are we so connected? That's the challenge. Therefore, I would like to know your views very clearly. And I have taken the mandate from our HD. That. These two sessions will have freedom of thought and expressions. He says subject to restrictions, but. I would request you to let's understand how far they can go so that we will also travel with them. To find out how right they are. I don't have two things I assure you of this topic with all of you. I have not come here with any preconceived notions. Even though I need to state how this issue is evolving, that's my duty. And two, I'm not come here to be either pass a judgment or being judgmental over anything. If you do that, then we can't collect the ideas. So the purpose of this interaction is. To collect ideas. How does modern India? View certain aspects in life. So the. Success of these two talks is dependent on your participation. I have prepared very less, no cheats. It can't consume more than 30 minutes, so you have a lot of time left. So your interaction is therefore a necessary ingredient for the stock. I'm very, very happy to be here last semester. I I normally make at least one. One lecture A semester. Last semester I missed it out and therefore I'm compensating it with two lectures, one in the morning and 1:00 in the afternoon. You will not get bored. I give you that assurance. The design of this two talks basically I will explain you the structure. So that you can also. I like yourself. Th just only narrate to you. What were the positions we have taken in review for? Because it's a law university, I'm entitled to narrate what was what was argued. e first talk will have three major components. 10 minutes before You can't allow individual liberties untapped. Individual liberties are subject to communitarian values. So you have two conflicting views of the Supreme Court of adventures of equal strength, one saying individual liberty will overlap and subsume any other guarantees under the Constitution, even if this fundamental nature. Each other supreme judgment, right? They say no individual liberties are subject to community impact. Therefore we need to deliberate as students of law, which are the two could be possibly right in the long run. So this will be the core syllabus for the next two talks. I hope you're OK with this. Basic guideline is fine, right? Ohh, let's understand what is moral reality about. So that takes the subject called education. He says. Admissions success, strength, or its brittleness depends on how it defines education. Concise. Can be the education in the following flow. You're first born as a child to your parents. You don't go to your school the day you're born. You're not shirt for the first few years. By your parents? No, of course by outsource to purchase, but somebody has to the child. And then it goes into an institution. Then as it grows, it also interacts with the society. And as he was, he gets married, he creates a family of its own and then starts going in, progressing in life. Before the journey of this human body comes to an end or gets terminated. So. Next, take the map. As a child, as an adult, as an adolescent, as an adult, as a youth and as one who progresses in old age. Are we not connected whether you want it or not? Are we not connected with something called a family system? Something called a society. Something called the Institution of Marriage. So he pushed the first question. Life Learning experiences. Or wrong. Or drink only from these three institutions by any human being. You can't be understanding emotional life in a college. College has its own text, its own syllabus, its own examinations. It needs to prepare a good life. So the emotional strength, the emotional ups and downs. The emotional experiences of life. Is taught to every individual only upon his interaction with his own family, with his own society, it his own nation, and through the process of his own marriage and creating his own. And therefore. If you want something to be a continuing education, education as a life science. The question that we need to ask is he asked to the world boss. Video and find it to your block of buildings. The sick of textbooks is sick of examinations? Or will you open up yourself for experiencing the world from these institutions which exist for time immemorial all parts of the world. There may be rare exceptions in some some human race, in some forbidden forest, but generally civilization. In any general civilization of any part of the world has these three institutions forming the fulcrum called a nation. What is a nation? Nation is not simply bought us. Station comprises of these three institutions and therefore the emotional life and experiences of individuals. Are they relevant or not in your progress towards life that's the first question, because today you must be aware. As you progress more and more in life, you will be undergoing a lot of interviews. You will meet with people today. Modern interviews are no longer IQ based. Vulnerabilities IQ is intelligent portion. How intelligent you are was how you were charged some years back. Today interviews all over the world is based on equals. How strong is your emotional quotient. Unless your emotional quotient is balanced, it is an equilibrium. It is insensible perceptions. Then you won't be able to meet those challenges that you may have to confront in the course of your employment. So emotional question is something a derivative not from a university syllabus. I think we all agree on this point. Or is there a disagreement I want to 1st understand before we progress to the next frame of mind? You agree emotional quotient and emotional experiences are of paramount importance as we grow as a human personality. Say yes or say no. Lovely. I hope there's this. Yeah, I'm happy. So it's not a majoritarian influence on you. Constitution prohibits majoritarian authoritarian impositions. So therefore it is not a majoritarian view. It's a unanimous view of this House to say that we need these three institutions, which gives us the emotional life. Alright, how he then progresses to say if you have so. What should be the content of your educational syllabus? Not university. When I say education, what Swami Vivekananda says. Writing exams, education as an ongoing experiment on yourself, you and your education, that's how you perceive it. He takes every individual. He asserts the See he's one person who brought out the concept of individuality, which was otherwise hidden in the society. He was one who promoted into joy 100 years back. He was concerned ultimately about an individual's happiness. And into just priority in life and an individual's liberty, life, individuals, dignity in life. But then he decided to promote individual liberty and dignity. His syllabus contained a few aspects and perspectives. So in 2019 we need to understand that these perspectives are needed. So because there's an agreement amongst us, marriage, society and family are indispensable institutions. Good ohh. Then we progress to the next stage, he says. In your curriculum of life. Should you not be focusing on 4 elements? Identifies the four elements physically. Intellectual, emotional and ethical. He says you create. He makes a clear distinction. How does an individuality becomes a personality? What is transformation from education? That was the question. The world took him. You're talking all this. Put us in one sentence. You're saying there must be a transformation. Transformation means what? Transforming whom to what? He had one line answer. I'm talking of an individual dignity and individual liberty. And how an individual can transform into a great human personality. So maybe you should remind us an individual, or you should convert yourself as an individual personality. That's the question. If you agree that you should become a personality of our own. Didn't he says your educational perspective should be and you must have 4 components as your basis in your life, physical, intellectual, emotional and ethical. And he says the first two you learn it through a system called education, through a system called curriculum. Both your intellectual education and your physical education sports good nourishment. All this has been taught everywhere and intellectual, making you intellectually strong on certain talents, certain skills, certain abilities and certain domain subjects of knowledge. This is something the university can impart to you. I could come to the other two components, namely the emotional and ethical integration, he says. You need to fall back again on these three sacred holy institutions called marriage, society and family. It is they who can supplement you and educate you and impregnate on you emotional values and ethical values. What do you mean? To concentrated equality in afternoon session. Basic ethics trying to be human first of all. When you adjust with your sister, how you keep on fighting, even against her saying that blueberries are sacrosanct. Will you compromise for something for the sake of your brother? Will something for the sake of your parents? I say comfort me. My liberties are far supreme and sacrosanct. And get lost you guys. I don't want you in my life. Therefore these two aspects, all the four According to him makes a personality. Then the next step she takes on this is if you have all the four components, it's a beautiful derivative concepts, he says. Any human being. Who accepts all these four components as part of his personality? He will be able to identify a surplus in him as a human personality, he says. That is the derivative. What is the advantage of doing this? I thought, we are we. We ask you to do something. What will come to me? With a simple expectation, he gives the result, he says. If you integrate all these four into your life. You will be able to identify what is surplus in you. What do you mean by surplus? It can be. It can be a source of knowledge. It can be a source of time. This can be a surprise in terms of physical competence, but it can be support any other form. Then, he says, once you identify the surplus, if you have a good emotional background and a good educational background, you will be driven to think, how do I employ the surplus in life? Should I use the surplus for my personal gains? How should I integrate this surplus for human society and human cells? Good emotional life makes you to renounce. Good emotional life will thank you to serve the society because good emotions give you lots of strength and energy internal. That is his objective. So every human being, you, you, you apply your mind calmly and quietly and discuss some of your own friends. Excuse me? After one month, find out as God left any surpluses with you. You will be driven to identify your surpluses. You will have one, he says. No human being is left without supplies. It's a question of identifying the surplus. So this process then happens as the next derivative. Then he says if you move forward with this integration of all these four components, they generate 3 invaluable outputs you. Awareness, social, connect and humanistic values. If you have already watched Life, if we have a good education, and if you combine this, you will turn out to be extremely humanistic. And the final point, which the destination he says, is you will see the difference between organic satisfaction and value satisfaction. That's the balance sheet which each and every individual here has to draw. What do you mean by organic satisfaction Satisfying bodily and sensual desires? Keep on working towards that delicious pleasures in life. But value satisfaction is something which generates a lot of peace, a lot of happiness and you vibrate love slowly to others. In fact, the concept of universal love, All of us, all of us in freedom of expression. First line this week worth watching whichever side they take on freedom of expression we want to you see universe allowed to be achieved. You can achieve universal love. Only when you have ethical integration. Do you have an emotional question for you? And you realize life is not organic. Life is not merely biological. Life is beyond human biology. There are there's a mind to the life. There is a sense of an integration in the form of society. That life, and therefore life, is a value quotient and not another question. So yeah, but the 2nd frame. Now my questions. I want to take questions. Do we agree on this premise of Vivekananda or do we have to say life is only organic? Life is only precious, It's immaterial. Life cannot be value. There need not be any ethics to life. There may not be any emotions to life. Which of the two views do you subscribe? Let me put it on board for yes or no. Do you agree we need all these four? Any physical, intellectual, emotional and ethical integration. What do you say? Emotional and ethical integration is not required at all for a man's life, yes or no? Can we can we say these four are indispensable. I want you to interact freely. I've. I've taken the mandate. So if you have anything to subscribe for you to learn, please let us let us interact. And we have no problem about it. Yeah, please. I'm happy. And somebody. So the question which he says. That's not a rational decision Making a rational performance of activities is like a great satisfaction. It gives you immense satisfaction to you. So why not that constitute the basis of human life? Have you put, have put the question correctly, you're satisfaction, right? OK, now let's give this question. What do you mean by Russian? Last name is using typography intelligence. Using the power of your strength in the form of skills or talents, whatever manifests in you visible have you given territory, right? No. How do you ready to take up failures in life with a smile. That's the first question I'm gonna ask because the young children today who go to school, who are all cajoled on the theory of rationality, that child should have, it should be, it should enjoy, it should do anything. The moment it makes a small slip or fall down, the child is not able to accept any defeat in life. So rationality gives you joy. Undoubtedly. As long as you keep performing, as long as you're able to achieve the results of your defined purposes. That's the strength of freshman. See, nothing is without strength. And that's why I said I'm not judgmental, I'm here to please feel free to enter that I've come to learn as much as you think you can get something out of this. So rationality. Encourages you to vote stupid or increases you to better increase is to have principles already agree, but rationality because of absence of emotional integration and ethical equation to it. If you fail on your attempt, you simply pick up most of. The front if you say no, I don't break down, I'm quite courageous. I think life in his own style. Then you have to consider the fact you are rationality has indeed and emotional portion to it somewhere you have been trained to think emotionally that your ownership is only pertaining to race and you're not a winner for results. Emotions and good integration compromises high level of cohesiveness. All this produces you a thought that you are the owner to your work, your owner, your effort. But you're not one of your results, because results according to rationality. I have put an effort. It should produce result that's rationality works. It doesn't work that does not work that way. Effort doesn't turn into a success. So what is that missing question? Missing question? Philosophers will call it karma. What did you say? Have the courage to face it. And he was only taken to teach what choice. So the answer to your question is it's all fine till you succeed. This rationality doesn't work in a situation of failure. And life is a combination of both. And therefore you need a family, you need a society, you need a Medical Association to lean back, somebody whom you can share anything you want comfortably. See, the relationship of a husband and wife is so unique in any system of marriage. You can't generalize that relationship with any other relation. It's impossible. You you go and discuss with the most harmonious couple which makes the most We'll talk with them the indispensability, the emotional indispensability of the life partner, 7 to 10 pages that would be today. Diverses are all increase for different reasons. We can discuss at a later point of time, but marriage as an institution, as a platform. It's only mortal strength. So who agree rationality has this nonsense? Thanks so much. So why don't we plan for this? I see. I'm. I'm happy. I want to know your name. Her question is not answered. Should we? Should we value her question? Because that is the basic part that is running in your mind. After all, I can read and the world is seen visualized as a material perception. I'm able to see what I see, what I see. It all starts with that seeing is truth. Seeing is correct. My perception, drawn out of my own seeing, my own understanding, is that correct? See, this is how rationality is built. So what? It is centered around your intelligence, your capability, your ability to assimilate, and your ability to connect and draw an inference. You can go right. You can go wrong, because human experiences cannot be just a composition of a single individual and perception. It has several, that's why. See, when you discuss you and I want to marry this guy's parents, ask questions. Really. Why? Because they. We keep you happy. That's the first question we ask. So they want a rationale, answer and emotional connect to say, how do you say that he will be able to ensure a good life for you? So can you say this is a stupid question? I know how to deal with my life. Can you say it? And that you reply to Paris? That's the question. So whether you have to be rational or you have to integrate, that's the point. OK, good. So. He left here like can't be nearly organic satisfaction. Life has to be a value satisfaction. That's how you move into life then, he says. After this, Swami Vivekananda is fun. Who has built the aspect of secularism in a classical way. If somebody wants to understand, especially you as lawyers, if you want to know secularism, read every form of school of secularism. Absolutely. See, you must be exposed to every thought. Don't shut your eyes. Don't shut your ears. Listen to every part. Understand everything. But you must be able to know what is correct or what is wrong for which you are. Understanding of the whole perspective is important. Don't derive. You want conclusions based on your own imperfect knowledge or imperfect understanding. That's the only passion every time a classical school gives to rationalists. Okay Adamant. Don't be inflexible. Don't be impolite, Don't be harsh to holding. You're used to say the rest of the views and the final conclusion is. That's the best way to break. How do you break it? You know you have. This is how we populate ideas, ideas, ideas. Each of us, one of us, should be more relatively right in any issue. I would like some issue you may be like some other issue I did not always you need not be right always. So unless this isn't this happens, how do you generate a good society? That's the question. So when he deals with secularism, she gives. According to me, we have read researching enough of this thought in various cross sections of views. His view appears to be the best according to me. You can add or you can contest so that I will learn if there is something more to activate, he says. What is secularism? Preserve your religious practices, preserve your customer. This is your house. Don't bring it to public domain. See the formula? He doesn't say. Give your religion today. What people in the name of secularism preaching to all of us becoming humility secularism. You can never reach secularism being religious, because if you become irreligious, you don't involve it. Egoistic you become. So 2nd result is not making people irreligious, it is making people religious. We ensure they respect every form of faith including non believers. That's great. What to see Long believers are right and that is the feat Let's just not faith that needs to be subsumed this 2nd result. So this is the first aspect. It brings it out. close your religion and art practices. Lock it under key in your house when you come to public domain because the Constitution guarantees equal rights. He said he getting constitution, it gives equal opportunities for everybody to understand everything. So where do you need that back? Why do you need the tag anymore? That's the question. So that's not function now. You don't have to spread hatred or love or any sense. Why should we talk religion in public or private profits? English is all this happened. That is the need to bring this into public. You can have it your own way. That's right. That was his recipe for one of the principal aspects of secularism. And he said he escalated to a more refined subject, spiritual life. Yeah, please. So everybody has put your name. Please give your name. Ohh my question is that what will happen if a certain religion prescribes that religion should be brought into the public domain. See now I can simply question. 26. He never followed anything completely from any particular religion. He never evidenced his philosophy based on one particular religion. He generalized it, he took the best of everything and integrated it as what is good for the human race. So therefore, he said if somebody is going to recommend that as a part of their religion in 2019, it's not going to work. You then start a non secularistic you only in that because see what we discussed in public domain. It leads to more problems. A sensible human beings we should refrain from discussing religion in public doing. I just making a request to all of you. Wherever I go I always tell the children you peace a chance. Give harmony a chance. Life is wonderful in your peaceful. Initiated might an inflexible might, an intolerant might cannot be very happy always. Dancer could be. It is not advisable to do it in public going. That's exactly what documents put it at home. So this is a second step. For the third, yeah, please. It's just that you said that talking about religion in a public forum is not advisable given that it may lead to intolerance. But you've also said that through discussing, through following your religion, not just in your home but outside as well, you start to understand through religion, you understand secularism. So it's that little country. Very simple. If you are in a state of equanimity. Then any discussion is OK. Any discussion is OK. But when you are in a in a situation you you you cross through experience in life you're talking about 2019 you're probably doing is so infected, so affected, so contaminated with with hatred. Justice. In that scenario, it's not right what he said 100 years before. When it comes to public domain, don't open your mouth. He's not wrong. I agree with him in the sense that even when we make laws. Most of our laws regarding. Marriage and divorce are still based on your religion and that should come and and the the whole religion factor should come out of it. So I do agree with Swami Vivekananda there. But I also feel at some point that the more we discuss at some point the the more awareness is created. So it's a question of the discussion in public domain. Speechless. It's a different theory, but when the public domain is interested only the contaminated matter, especially in the KC constant religion or the two easiest thing to contaminating people influence democratic results. It's easiest to make something out of that all these years. So should you want to rethink, at least in your generation. See all of your classmates, all of your batchmates, all of you, don't have the same university. How many times you would have fought with each other on religious faith and religious discourses would not have. But the more you step off of it, or when you are in your own private domain with a set of people you WhatsApp hate messages, you forwarded messages, you feel that you have to take one side or the other. How many times? Because you basically one piece so you feel talking this to my close friend will disrupt the relationship. But what's happening to 100 people also this us see these people are succeeding. You should understand the fellow who puts the state message. You are actually getting in by start following it 100 * 1000 times. A billion times your support and his mission achieved. He has ensured hate messages. Like, should we not stop that? Why should we want at least take a vow that you can when you when you when you forward a message. Let it know happiness and peace to the recipient. Let it not be hated. Love his life, his death by hating the first suffer will be the person who hates before it endures somebody else. So never hit anybody like that's the commitment has children. You should have it as a philosophy of life. How can behavior. So hit that should help us and hit let me get out of your system only when you have a good emotional balance, not the rationality, rationality. It will also rationally stated and say conceptually is a point of view. You know he tells this in the society. That that's the point. Any questions? Ohh yeah. So I have it now is not very related to what you said, but then it is a point connected to. You're saying that religious practices are supposed to be done inside your house. Doesn't that also mean that you are trying to restrict other cultural practices that are related to the region, which is like, for example, in the name of secularism, Karnatic music is regarded not belonging to Hinduism? When I say I'm I'm, I think it's a good question. So I'm not now conducting a class of classifying what should be religiously at home and what should be other than religious faith in public domain. I'm not doing that. I'm not doing that section today, actually. Pick a subject which can lead to confrontation. Don't debate a subject which can show the seats are heated. Carnatic music doesn't show hatred anyway, you dislike the position. You may have musician for his rhetoric. Develop as a hatred against that music. But as whole religious thoughts and cool religious experiences today develops, spreads a lot of hiring. That's true. Then when you pass through the space, I don't want you to suffer this mutilation in your emotional quotient. You should be able to love anybody, Ask question beings, and you want a better, strong, cohesive, unified force. I think this is exactly what I'm too small to say. I'm only borrowing an idea. I'm saying the idea. But hundred years back he has conceded what is suited 2019. That's what I'm trying to I was wondering. I started reading him to capture the notes for this song. I was stunned. His gospel truths will remain eternally imperishable and it'll work at all. That's how it is decided, because human feelings normally progress in a particular state in a particular. OK, so now. Yeah, yeah, please take away. We have restricted to 1 mic to restrict one question at a time. So from what I understood from this ideology and so correct me if I'm wrong. Also, people, you're a lawyer first understand, don't hesitate, speak whatever you feel. So what I understood is that the ideology propagates the fact that we should rather not get into a conflict than confronted head on what it is. What I feel the ideology propagates is that so? To me, sexualism promotes tolerance. And if we confide our religious practices and our. The uniqueness of my religion to the four corners of my home. This is me and I'm not bringing it to the public domain. It promotes ignorance rather than tolerance. Because if I don't showcase the uniqueness of my religion to others and the and the fact that in the public domain, if I cannot practice my religion along with that of another religion together in harmony, that is what that is what tolerance is to me. That's what secularism is. Perfect. So, she says bringing it in public establishes harmony. Please, I'll ask the counter question today. We have technology. Everything can be put in a platform. Go back to your grandma's. What did she exhibit in public domain and was she not more religious than your mom? And what she Was she not more religious than you? Why always religion ultimately is customized to what is called as a family practice in India. This is a combination of your cost and religious practices. It applies even the Abrahamic religions, not only to him. Therefore, it is so customized between one family and the other family, even though they belong to the same religion. House practices, we have variation. It is so customized. She exhibited public going. Nobody exhibited anything. Everybody. My friend, my cousin has probability. I'm saying all this because I still have orientation with my village. They treat most monopolies. Morning 9:00. People lock. 2:00 meet mix as needed and evening liquor and video with him. One God different practices. Poisonous. Poisonous centuries back, centuries back. Because everybody respected even practices and everybody homogeneous, they practice. You won't see the village. This is a practice in most. At least it is there in which I can say this virus. Therefore you decoration is possible. The integration doesn't pay in public domain. Integrating in public domain is different from exhibiting in public domain. When you start exhibition then exhibition generates heat. It doesn't generate like religion generates light, your personal pursuit, it doesn't generate light in a collective collective endeavor religious. Because it doesn't generate like. Such things must. Everything is how you doing today. You look back. Keep it there. You will have 2019. Right. OK. So this is 1/1. I have one question. Is that I think I should follow to be true to my religion. If I'm gonna limit that to my house or the focus of my house and I'm now in a public domain, and if I do not follow a particular belief or practice, am I not restricting myself from the question is understood very clinically when I say don't bring religion into public, don't discuss it, don't debate it, don't create. Suffer. I'll put it in that short space. Don't video. Have you done it? Done it. What I'm trying to say are you engaging in your in your daily routine? How many hours are minutes do you spend every day to stand up in public? Go in and argue. Everything is superior. You'll never do it. That's what I meant to say. But you don't mind forwarding a message 100 times. Which messages can only instigate it? That's the point. I'm trying to I'll put it in that narrow campus rather than trying to decide which portion of religion is within the house. Which portion. Yes, yeah. Individuals perspective and considering their emotional question, wouldn't it be better for them to be exposed to different perspectives and then decide which practice would be better suited for them? If we were to restrict it within the four corners, they wouldn't be exposed to various practices. The individual to 1st debate and determine what right. See I I want to go with an empirical data because emotion. I'm applying the rational approach. Please tell me you're exposing it to multiple thoughts. How many have either aligned themselves with the regions which they belong or how many have migrated to other regions? And what is the empirical data you have? Hey. This isn't probably going. It encourages a beautiful cohesion and harmony. I can give you. That's the point. So he was given a rational rationality is subject to the understanding that should be very great. Still no. My view is this has to be exposed or no, this exposure has led to these consequences. So is exposure good or bad? That's the question I want to ask. I have to say it has. Right, you know on this next week, so now we consolidate this, he says. A combination of all this results in a good emotional balance for a human being. And when it comes to secularism, this is 1 cardinal rule. Along with secularism I want to add 1 dimension of globalization This is. Lower value addition Swami Vivekananda never had a chance to speak of globalization. That he's globalization was different. I'm making a request to all the children here, see if somebody is going to say globalization is bad and you should oppose globalization. It's madness because globalization has done so much to the world in terms of technology, in terms of employment, in terms of progress. That said, politics. So there are lot of advantages which each one of you can exploit out of globalization. I give you the assurance I one person I can share my personal experience on that. But you must follow one formula when it comes to globalization. Globalization is like a pair of slippers. You should allow you should leave them at your doorsteps or not take it into your home. When it comes to religion, I'm saying don't take it to the public domain. When it comes to globalization values relating to globalization, please don't allow it to invade your homes. Your homes will go for us if you have these two laws in life. Your life will be a very healthy life practice at all. We and we as citizens in the public domain encourage export. Use the advantages of globalization, but leave it to roses. You don't allow your value systems to be corroded with globalized progress. Progress out of globalization can give you only material benefits rather than globalization will not make you a superior. Making the more you want spiritual person. He has no such groups, he can only make you really happy. So should be really happy. But because you can be really happy, don't think the flip side of globalization is also good for you. This doesn't happen. All I will show you the flip side of globalization. That's the point about which So don't take globalization into your home. If you have these two topics, put parts in your in your mind, then possibly you can move to the next frame of thought, a better frame of mind where you will consider, see today you are individuals or youngsters. At some point of time you go for an employment or get the professional will create a family for yourself. You're great people around you will be part of the society and for some social service something happen to you, all of you. So these two points, according to Swami Vivekananda, good secularist, is what defined dimension of globalization. If you have these two points, you will always consider family and marital institutions or the indispensable nursery for any human being. He uses his not indispensable history of human morals and human values. Touched it. That's that necessary inevitable result one will reach. Please now you want to ask a question. You are asking a lot of questions about public domain, what to say, what not to say, How to define What not to define. 1300 years back, How about philosophers have classified human race into 4 broad categories. No one system, national system. This classification for something completely different. Quite broad buckets. Poojas who are yogis, Saints, people who are disconnected with the world. That's one section. The 2nd is. People who are ready to come forward and help the society as long as it doesn't reach them, as long as I don't suffer anything, I'm ready to come. And the third category is what I will do something in the society to derive a selfish benefit. For myself, I'm not bothered about if society is affected in the process or not. That's the third category of human beings and the last human beings. Whether it is good or bad, I will destroy the society. It's equilibrium, it's environment, every damn thing, even if I don't believe anything. Happy Socialist. So these are the four. Got it? At every point of time, every nation will have these four sets of people. How do you catch that? He says. The health of a nation is couched as long as the host and the last category growing as microscopic minority. Thank you greater extent yourself. You can't have too many people the yogis then. It's not that easy. You can't also have too many anti social elements. If that's going to be an increase in the percentage of anti social elements, there is a case for concern for that nation. So 114 has to be at the barest minimum, and two would be whether you help for your own benefit or you help in an unselfish way. It depends on the texture of the nation, the nation where the maximum population belongs to the. Category will always remain stable mission as long as you can keep increasing the bandwidth in the second category, that nation will be strong and the superior nation for customers. So as youth, as youth, don't you have a responsibility to contribute your right either between the second category or the third category to start you start with? Category and it's slowly end up to reach the second category and you please keep increasing its balance. So this is the foundation I laid you till now. Are there any disputes or are they any doubts or are there any issues to be resolved? I'll give you a final round of questioning for next 5 to 10 minutes and then I wind up in the next minute of this talk. Who we have? Do you have any questions now or? Can I say that up to this, that is an agreement amongst us? So I'll connect two heads, which is antisocial elements and keeping your religion at home. Let's assume a scenario where there are, I hope you don't say keeping. So I'm assuming it's anywhere of anti social elements who are going against your religion in public domain. So in that scenario, are you expected to predict your religion at home or are you expected to actively take it to public domain and particular religion? My question 1/2. Going strictly by the mandate for the past 5-10 minutes that you should keep it at home and not propagate anything on public domain to save it, always are coming to the thought that we are allowing other folks to exploit our religion. So we ask that question, I understand. You know, automatically in fact we are not doing some work. We are planning to contribute some articles for the purpose of these elections in a very, very neutral way has lawyers. We discovered Supreme Court has said so many things about voter voting right on the democratic values. The actions so much of discourses, one of them being. Now, what is a valuable right for any voter? It dislikes all the interesting candidates. You can put more perfect. But the downside of motor, if you see is if water doesn't constitute the majority. If what constitutes the majority, you'll actually throw all the candidates out. It's frustrating. It's kind of. Then not a substance is objected. By voting into NOTA, you don't constitute the majority, but actually succumbing to some fellow being the election. Anyhow, your vote because at least. So is it appropriate to use water in this election? That's question how crucial it is. How crucial is your vote? How does that ohh this is the paper answer no and he says somebody is bringing something in public domain when I say don't take it out. This must be a fundamental aspiration for all human beings. I I'm, I'm not saying do it from tomorrow, do it from yesterday, no. He should not the path which we should progress so that you guys live a life in peace and harmony which we have not enjoyed much. The kind of the ups and downs all of us have gone in 50 years of our human existence, this is something which you need not undergo. Because because they're all becoming very rational and therefore I'm requesting you should not. So unless there's a consensus amongst all it's like no one says I'll keep it. So this is an evolving theory which I wanted to put it as a thought process #1 #2. This is my answer for conversion. Let's take conversion as a question. What do we do? Whoever converts what doesn't convert? How do we meet that challenge when there's a forced conversion which is not a constitutional guarantee? Always be. Have you done enough for those people in your region Because my driver, in spite of 10 times being persuaded to be converted. Like some meat, in spite of being impressed with lot of money, a lot of assurances has not. Honey, this these sets of people who are normally prone to cross. So if you diagnose what is the problem. See if companies, employees, institutions are ready to take care of all of them. Their families celebrate few of the festivals collectively. Give them the shadow representation to participate. The problem in our house is able to purchase assault capability only by surrounding. I want her to involve some form of religious activity. So if you involve them in your religious enterprise, give them an opportunity to participate. Bring them on board. Make them feel that they are towards God. This is one of the aims and ambitions and visions of Swami Vivekananda, he said. And he sees. See our religion. Any religion for that matter, has to be Catholic. It gives the right to reach to God. Everybody take any cost. Have you not seen people from all the cost, all the customers reaching out? So you become has based in apply the same logic material warfare, can you become a cost issue. In a religious nothing is a problem that's the digestion which we are not able to align in the social process. So I request to all of you. Try to promote So how do you stop conversion? Ensure people of your own clan Arctic in religious activities, in activities which had instilled faith, confidence and happiness and a great sense of participation. This is what two as he was putting across if somebody occupies and then starts predicated, somebody occupies, starts converting. Somebody operation starts hiking. The answer is the seat. Suppose there's a what? Are you suppose all of the entire 121? What? You can't do that because we don't know how to each one. So suppose there's an internal disturbance of a civil nature and Indian society stand up and say you solve the problem. You can't solve the problem. See, these people are succeeding only there. What the civil unrest creating the minds, creating agitation in the human mind is really honest. So you populate the human mind with unrest. Then it took us. Then the trigger becomes a fire. It's gonna be becomes a social distance. None of you should be a victim to this track, is what I'm trying to say. We're all intelligent lawyers in the future. Don't get emotionally requested. Be sensible. There is a problem and therefore the problem needs to be handled with the solution. The solution is not everybody is standing up and shouting at the problem. Have you solved? You have not found it. And that's why I'm scratching you a discourse in public customers. Any questions? Last 10 minutes then be cool. OK, fine. I'm happy to. Yes. Yeah. Like good afternoon, Sir. Ask your permission to ask two questions. One question. You can ask two questions. Yes. My first question is a personal question, which is with respect to the emotional question and rationality. I think I'm actually speaking for most of us in the house that I find it to be a Gray area with few individuals having a writer spoke of emotional question and a few having a writer spoke of rationality. So sometimes we tend to not find which area we're supposed to be in while taking a decision, and that's where most of us get confused and end up taking a hasty decision. Another decision which may turn out to be not in our favor. So how do we strike a balance rather to find out what should be our intention, rather our idea when we think about something to take a decision. That's my first question 2nd about public domain and religion. We spoke about us practicing religion at home within the four corners and all that. How do we apply Swamiji's principle when say, a government uses or rather uses a text of a constitution? For certain principles of particular religion on a huge country, in the case of a democratically elected government in a secular country, see your Constitution guarantees propagation and professing a religion as a constitutional right. I'm not disagreeing. It's a constitutional right, and that's why many people propose. I only see contextually. This offering of religion has only led to more and more heated. And more and more you have a guarantee. And before you do it, that's the question. So my answer to that question is you will understand you're not now. You are all in a very protected environment today. As you move more and more in the world, you will feel this heat and challenge cheating on you. Then you will have to take a call. I would request you not to give an emotional backlash of coming up on stage. Anybody catches? Please don't beat Hitler is no solution to any problem. God will not support one who hits. He will drop you like a hot potato and society also will not help support. Hated on point. Hitler is not a solution. That is the answer to the second question. For the answer to the first question is I agree see some we have an emotional question deficiency at home, some will have an emotional. Deficiency in society. So one thing I've found out in my life. If you're somewhere, what gives you an opportunity of compensation somewhere else? So it is up to you to either feel and deprived of this or who is deprived and compensated here. So let me develop a question, better question. I would encourage you to follow the second school rather than the first school. See why I'm emphasizing on this immortal part. As children, I want you to feel very happy. I want you to feel very proud. I want you all to feel very confident and. Without which you can achieve nothing. Let us today children are being forced to be triggered, forced to be agitated, forced to be disturbed for anything. You start raising an issue. Recall you can be stable or given you remain calm and to make sense, and this is a fundamental requirement for any human being, any party. I'm worried that fundamental question is getting throttled, which I'm going to discuss in the afternoon. The entire effort, 1/2 hours on this emotional question is only to tell you the second part of the afternoon you will not know. This one. That's the reason in this one. This is a basic foundation to build a superstructure. Yeah ohh let me post this now have all this. Six finally controlled. He has not used the word constitutionality anywhere in his speeches. He can conceive of it at that point of time, but he does say these are the benefits 1 can be right as citizens. I've been dealing now as individuals all these all the while. Swami Vivekananda now converts every individual. And says as a citizen, what are your responsibilities? He says the country a citizen whose granted freedom without responsibilities, will end up with the following. What she will more often be an intolerant human being. Unlimited freedom without leads to intolerance, lack of harmony. Pick something the gentleness in the human being. The most pacifying love. And pick something that is called understanding, Spirit of a family or a society. So if you want a citizen, you want to be a citizen only with freedoms, no limitation. I am a free citizen of India. I do anything I want. You will end up with these policies. Intolerant, lack of harmony, taking away the settings in the human being removed, classifying love and takes away the understanding spirit of fellow human beings. Is it right? It should be Should we eat ourselves into that? So now we come to constitutional morality. And obviously the expression was first coined by. You have never thought that this would occupy these days of judgment. Constitutional morality in the first 5-6 decades has journeyed, only deciding democratic values in deciding institutional values. Criminalization of politics, corruption in politics. In fact, one of the judgments Should the Prime Minister be given the option, the discretion, in choosing the cabinet minister? Should legislature or election Commission or judiciary interview with the decision making process? He's like he's something constitutionalist. Unless you trust positionally your Prime Minister, how would you allow the institution to work? See the immunity from assembly proceedings. Why? The upset the representatives who assembled the parliament or in the state legislatures or voted to power through a process of elections by the citizens. So they voice their views in that assembly, and therefore you must allow them to voice their views with freedom of free speech and expression. You cannot apply the strength therefore they're immune from. So these are the circumstances that this doctrine of constitutional morality has evolved and integrated. But now we have borrowed this concept and say that. Because our Constitution today only individual liberty is the only constitutional morality one has to follow. Every other form of guarantees will subsume into this. It will dissolve into this. What stands up ultimately in the Constitution is only mere individual body that is sacrosanct, not compromising anything conflicting with that subscribe to this, and that is the constitutionality which we need to be covered. Is that he does interpretation by the Supreme Court, By office judgments. So whether they are right or it requires A revisit, let's engage into a very healthy debate in the afternoon. Any questions? Do we? Do we go with this frame of mind in the afternoon session? Yes, yes. I've been asking 3 questions and most of them will be into the moral principles or the moral contributions in the first one, model model contributions contributions because judiciary is doing a function and they are interpreting the constitutionality and they're not certain conventions. That's what I'm going to do. First one is the concept of reasonableness. We know that the judiciary is following the principle of statuses and presidents. Many judgments, famous events are given regarding the parameters of reasonableness and it was established by higher interest. What if these subject to nature, these subject to reasonable characters that are continuously changing the types of time. And yeah, lower bench wants to go against the judgment of the bench. That's my first question, is purely legal. It's not legal. It's illegal. You got me? I'm putting it out. See, we are all governed by the principles of judicial hierarchy, and incorrect decision of an appellate court finds a lower court. That's the law. Unless otherwise, the lower court is able to find out that the upper school decision suffers from parent to him. Otherwise, right or wrong in appellate court judgment is binding on the. What's up? Certain concepts like morality, public order, these will change. These are subject to change, and it changes from decade to decade. But the change has to be affected again only by the Supreme Court Constitution 5 pronounced a particular view. That view needs to be revisited. It has to be revisited by Apple venture 7 Till such time, for example. Whether basic structure should be interfered or not is a working question now. And how does it hang? What is this it cannot interpret? How do you know 30 judges? It is 7 is to six is 1 view. Another view is 60 to 60 to 1. So that one is nobody knows. It hangs on such a wafer thin majority minority view. But still today the lawyers. You cannot change the basic structure of the constitution, whether you want it or not. You can do a constitutional amendment, allow the parliament to pass, the rest of the state to pass, but that's a different process. Or else this 13 judges should be 15 should visit till such time basic structure. But uh, if these strict rules and complaints have to be followed, won't it make us avail ourselves all wounded, make us move away from the role of giving Brandon justice? See, no answer is this article because a law student, Article 145 of the Constitution makes it very clear the Constitution went to the Supreme Court is the ultimate interpreter of law, but what it interprets becomes law. Land Article 140. We are governed by the Constitution. Principle and advice from you Sir. I want to get this from you. We are facing debating minds of judges and advocates. We know that a particular concept must not be in this way, but they audio and they also know it will be detrimental to the society. Audio in that sense how to approach those situations as a lawyer. So see, what he's saying is, I mean I'm, I'm basically getting irritated or frustrated. The kind of discourse is happening in public domain or even in court proceedings, which does not suit certain objectives. See, I think we have very little control over it for the reason that this freedom of thought and expression has gone too far in the society. So narratives and counter narratives over everything is all of the data. And it's also finding passive approved wiggles. In fact, not even all. In his latest book, he talks about media hypocrisy and the hype media does whenever it wants to sensationalize an issue. There is there are two beautiful passages in that book, he says. This is actually a menace. But in a democratic society with very limited options available, we will rather suffer this menace, which may be 5 out of 10 times back. After all five times it brings the guilty to the book. So it's a question of combination. And not even office teacher's office business Office capability says. And I mean uninhibited media go back. We need still need to encourage it in a democratic society, because occasionally they bring some good. You have to understand what he has to say, what he has in mind to say. It's like our criminal law. Let thousand culprits escape. One innocent should not be held guilty. Same law. Social democracy is always a game of numbers, game of averages, because only thing is the Constitution. Supreme Court says you can't impose A majoritarian view on the minority and therefore they substituted that by saying the best solution is make everything as usual view. Everything is individual liberty. There was no confusion. That's the result of all these disputes. Yeah. Yes. You have several minutes. After that I can take questions. No, you speak because it's. Assuming that we do achieve a situation where there is no public debate about any kind of religious practice, don't you think that will cause more agitation Because it's something that's building up inside one individual and also being Indians, that we are to ask to hate or not to hate? And even if there is no external manifestation of any public activity against hatred or any particular religion, I think there still will be some. Music activity inside each individual understand question. See the answer. This 30-40 years back when we were children like you. We never had this type of media. And we never had this type of technology. Which can project anything instantaneously and keep triggering. Latitudes or counter narratives including it. 30-40 years back, same cost problem was there, same just attitudes and issues were there but it was not Christian public. Knowing that we keep coming to the States very tight. This is of a recent origin. Because of the advantages of technology. Because you have a platform that give me time, you can populate review. Freedom of speech.